Add identity explainer (#798)
xmtp/xmtp-dot-org: src/pages/identity.mdx

}
```

All associated wallets can access an inbox and associate new wallets. Only a designated recovery wallet can remove associations. By default, this is the wallet that created the identity.

- For each operation, the SDKs verify wallet signatures to ensure authorized changes.
- Only wallet addresses can be directly associated with XMTP identities. Application developers use third-party SDKs to resolve names to these wallet addresses.
- The SDKs keep state current by automatically replaying identity association history.

Currently, Ephemera operates a centralized service to synchronize identity association history across the network.

## Decentralizing identity

In 2025, Ephemera will transition wallet associations to the XMTP appchain, enhancing security and censorship resistance while maintaining state consistency. Ephemera’s centralized service will remain active during this period to ensure seamless functionality for developers and users.

The `IdentityUpdates` contract will govern identity association transactions:

```solidity
event IdentityUpdateCreated(
    bytes32 inboxId,
    bytes update,                // Signed state change from SDK
    uint64 sequenceId
);
```

> SDKs will maintain the same simple operations, allowing identity association history to move on-chain without affecting developers' implementations. At this point, applications will have two paths for working with messaging identities:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SDKs will maintain the same simple operations, allowing identity association history to move onchain without affecting developers' implementations. At this point, applications will have two paths for working with messaging identities:
```

- **2026+:** Introduce privacy-preserving identity features, such as unlinkable associations, to balance privacy with usability.

## FAQ

1. **What differentiates XMTP’s approach to identity? What are its benefits?**

    Unlike traditional systems that bind user identity to a proprietary namespace, XMTP's identity model leverages existing namespaces. Users can consolidate all their names into a single messaging inbox managed by one wallet key, using different names for different contexts.

    *Benefits for users:*

    - Receive all your messages without switching apps.
    - Communicate using any name you own.

    *Benefits for apps and services:*

    - No need to build and maintain your own messaging system.
    - No need to integrate a new namespace.
    - If you have a namespace, XMTP makes it more valuable by extending its reach to more apps.
    - Users can communicate using all their names without switching to other apps.
    - Users can access existing agents and mini-apps developed by the XMTP community.

2. **How secure is this system? What happens if one of my linked wallets gets compromised?**

>     XMTP requires a signature for every identity operation. The SDKs automatically verify and replay identity updates, ensuring all changes are authorized. If a wallet linked to an identity is compromised, the recovery wallet can unlink it to protect the inbox. By default, the recovery walelt is the wallet that created the identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    XMTP requires a signature for every identity operation. The SDKs automatically verify and replay identity updates, ensuring all changes are authorized. If a wallet linked to an identity is compromised, the recovery wallet can unlink it to protect the inbox. By default, the recovery wallet is the wallet that created the identity.
```

6. **What is the maximum number of wallets that can be linked to an identity?**

    The XMTP identity system has a maximum limit of 256 wallets that can be linked to a single identity. Revocations and recovery address changes count towards this limit.

7. **Are there any rate limits for identity operations?**

    Yes, Ephemera’s centralized service has rate limits in place to ensure system stability under heavy usage. When the system transitions to the XMTP appchain in 2025, rate limiting will be managed through gas fees for each operation.

8. **What happens during the 2025 appchain transition?**

    The transition to the XMTP appchain will be seamless for users and developers. Existing identities will automatically migrate without disrupting functionality. The SDK interface will remain unchanged, and detailed migration guides will be provided to ensure smooth adoption.

9. **What costs will be associated with identity operations?**

>     Currently, wallet linking and unlinking operations are free. However, when the system transitions to the XMTP appchain, these operations will incur small gas fees, likely fractions of a cent. To ease user onboarding, applications can register on-chain as fee payers, covering these costs for new users during sign-up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Currently, wallet linking and unlinking operations are free. However, when the system transitions to the XMTP appchain, these operations will incur small gas fees, likely fractions of a cent. To ease user onboarding, applications can register onchain as fee payers, covering these costs for new users during sign-up.
```
